---
layout: post
title: A and B
category: [Short Stories]
published: false
---

This is supposed to be a growing story, still in it's infancy but hopefully it will grow into something decent. At it's core there is an emotion, a feeling. Which feeling? The feeling that meritocracy is an excuse for inequality. We lie to ourselves telling that what we achieve is our own, but it is not. We are the products of our surroundings, our friends, our cultures, children of chance. We see inequality around the world, but "it's okay: I deserve where I am because I have worked for it". What we fail to realize is that this is a big lie. I am happy with my life and what I have made of it, but I can't deny that I was one of the lucky few that started ahead in the [race of life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FBQx8FmOT_0)

I was given a heads up when I was able to show up for job interviews in a freshly ironed suit, giving the impression of success before uttering my first word. I was given a heads up when I went to bed calm knowing that I wouldn't have to do anything to have food on the table. I was given a heads up by being taught to be honest and trustworthy because people around me were also honest and trustworthy.

Not everyone is given a heads up.

I don't have solutions. There are many different solutions around the world, from [Freedom Dividends](https://freedom-dividend.com/) to Employment Quotas. These ought to be studied and developed to build a fairer world.

What I have to offer, instead, is a feeling. A feeling of disgust to the notion of a self-made man. I have no question that different people work differently, some working much harder than others, and their hard work deserves recognition, but they haven't done it in a vacuum. The environment we were brought up with aligned with our genes in order to give us greatness. The great people of our age might have fared very differently under Ancient Greece, Nazi Germany, or the Dark Ages.

Einstein would not have done his wonders had he had to fight starvation in Mozambique.
Ghandi would have not been an idol if born wealthy in Scandinavia.
Malala would have not been the Youngest Prize Nobel winner had she been born outside of Pakistan.

I bring the names of undoubtful heroes of our time, not because I despise them, but to bring home the notion that even they are the product of their circumstances, and as much as I idolize them, their success in no way means they should be given better opportunities than to others. We're in this world together, for good and bad, and we need to act accordingly.

The first step to get there is to get rid of the idea that [I deserve to be on top](https://digitalsynopsis.com/inspiration/privileged-kids-on-a-plate-pencilsword-toby-morris/). The idea your past somehow makes you superior to others. For that, I want to tell you a story.

It's a simple story, but I hope for it to be captivating. The story of two lives, separated by opportunity. The story of two students who have to learn different skills to survive, two workers that have very different obstacles to overpass. And as one thrives in their environment with little work, the other one struggles to make ends meet.

By the end I hope that you can feel what I feel.

## Chapter 1 - New Day

Tanya and Amayah Nawab. They are as healthy as any newborn twins can be. Their grandparents were no longer in the picture, but their parents lead a happy life in Visegrad, Hungary. None of them spoke the local language, their father being from Portugal, the mother from Pakistan. They were an unlikely match to start with, but having met during University where one discovers a lot about themselves, they've grown to understand each other, getting lost in the heat of the debate but always knowing that they were safe in each other's arms. She had a strong passion for society and inequality, having studied economics, history, and later law, in order to pursue humanitarian causes and make the world a better place, with the occasional comment that the world would be a much better place under her strict command. He had no grasp of the world, but his curiosity and preference for the exact sciences made them admire each other's strength, and allowed them to never stop learning from each other, even if at times that process was slow and painful.

They have lived in many different places, and Visegrad was just the latest in a long list of cities and countries. His work consisted on getting specifications of mathematical models which he would implement and then send back to his clients. Her work consisted of understanding the nuances of existing conflicts around the world, and providing reports that allowed key players to understand the geo political situation and, hopefully, lead to peaceful resolutions. Both could work from anywhere, and they made the best of it. THey had explored the never ending fresh fjords of Scandinavia, the floating dead sea, the surprising night life of Jerusalem, the juicy Greek salads of Piraeus, the towering waves of Nazaré, and a never ending list of hidden wonders. Their young life only allowed them to explore Europe together so far, but they had great plans to explore the entire world.

Today they had a different plan, though. The place they first met, Oxford, was organizing an alumni event. They had just landed there, on the 25th August, 2023, and were ready to see their old friends. It had been 6 years since they last all met together, and had talked face to face. They wanted to make the most of it and catch up in all of their life changing events. This also was their little twins' first flight, and they slept thanks to their teddy bear. Mom and Dad wanted to give them a teddy bear each to play with, but not the same, so they settled for a brown and a beige one. That was clearly not the smartest idea when they both got attached to the beige bear, and if one twin had it, the other would cry until she got it. The only way around it would be for the twins to end up sleeping together, laying against the beige bear. Surprisingly, that worked during the flight as well providing for a calm flight. Being rested, they weren't so sleepy. That worked in favor of their parents: they had their first Worcester Special of 6 years, and it was a delicious mix of french fries, spicy fried chicken and melted cheese that hadn't had gone through their taste buds in way too long. With that they took a walk along their old streets, walking past their college, seeing the façade of the Ashmolean, the University Parks and many other old memories. They went back to their hotel, ready for the next day.

As they woke up, earlier than usual, in excitement for seeing old faces, they left their babies asleep for a little while longer while going around the block to see the early sun. They stepped out of the Randolph hotel, and as they were crossing the street to reach the Ashmolean an inattentive car did not spot the red light. Both were taken out in a fraction of a section. 